Well Mr. Brown, I'm Mr. Hensville's office that's the work in connection with the
separate for that chronology.
What is this you've never ordered?
Anyway, you must be able to prepare the charges.
You have to get through now.
Well, I can't answer that yet, you know.
I've seen that you did issue the order or you did not issue the order.
Well, I ordered the relief to the members of this committee and to the other senators
and congressmen who were in it.
That's my responsibility.
All right.
Now we know that you're the relief.
The question is, did you order the preparation?
Did you order those formal charges prepared?
Well, I certainly was, uh, probably connected with it from the time I got back from, uh,
from the party.
Well, Mr. Secretary, someone must have ordered them prepared.
I am asking you the simple question, was it you?
I think the big affair assumption it was made.
Well, it can't be an assumption.
It can't be an assumption, we can't assume things.
Here we want to know.
If you don't remember it now.
I'm telling you that I am responsible for the, uh, for the fact that we supply this information
to the members of this committee and other members of the congress now, by the responsible
for that, I'm saying that it's responsible for having Dr. McIrry a lot.
Mr. Secretary Steven, I am not asking you to do in the line of command as responsible.
I am asking you the simple question.
Did you order these mirrored charges prepared?
Right the words were.
Do you order these charges prepared?
Yes, I would say I did.
So you would say you did?
Who did you order to prepare?
Well, naturally I talked with Mr. Adams about it also.
I talked with Mr. Hensel about it and Mr. Brown about it and others.
Did you tell Mr. Adams to prepare the charges?
No, Mr. Adams had a lot of material as we used in the preparation, but he didn't prepare
it.
And there came a time when the so-called formal charges were prepared, right?
The charges that you filed with the committee.
At some time they had to be prepared.
That's right.
Now I merely want to know who ordered them prepared.
Did you?
Are you talking about the original analogy or the, you know, the one that was later prepared?
I thought I made myself clear.
I said the charges that were filed with the committee.
I assume that.
March 11th they were filed and believed that's the correct date.
There's two papers and I'm just trying to look at that.
I was just waiting.
All right, just the one confused and let's take the chronology.
Who ordered that prepared?
Yes, that was my responsibility for getting that prepared.
You told me that ten times and we get to talk about that.
I don't want to know if you issued an order.
I didn't issue any written order, but I said I wanted to prepare.
All right, who did you tell you wanted to prepare?
I told Mr. Adams and others.
When did you tell him?
Sometime after my return from the faries.
All right.
Now do you know that the testimony is of the preparation of the command, according to the testimony of Mr. Adams,
long before your return from the faries?
I thought we'd covered that a while ago, but because they, when we said that,
Mr. Adams has a confident lawyer with getting together to remember around him,
some raw material and a file on this project, which he later showed to me.
Everybody came back.
Mr. Secretary, I'm going to read your testimony.
You're under open.
I know a few.
Page 1949 and a few four six years ago.
We get it.
Page 1949, volume 11.
First question.
Do you have that, counsel?
Who decided to prepare it?
First, my son, I'm a father.
Secretary Steven.
Who decided to prepare it?
Son, I'm a father yet.
What's your day of slavery?
I don't know who decided to prepare it.
I know that Mr. Hentel doesn't touch with me, and asked me to see Mr. Brown
and discuss these matters with him.
When I did that, I assumed that Mr. Hentel was probably acting in the orders of the Secretary of Defense.
I don't know.
Now, were you telling me to suit them, Mr. Secretary?
Well, this is no laughing matter.
We ask you them who prepared these charges.
Thirdly, I don't know.
Now, when I asked you when you were telling the truth, you grim and smart to laugh.
This is too serious for the laughing matter, Mr. Fakter.
First, is where you're telling the truth when you said I don't know who decided to prepare it?
He was probably acting in the orders of the Secretary of Defense.
You say I don't know.
Now, the day you said a few issues in the order, we must find a hot day you're telling the truth.
I think that's a bit unfaulful, I'll lie on my side, so, Senator.
You're all right.
Let's be clear, Mr. Fakter.
You told us that the day you said a few orders, the charges were prepared.
The charges were 1929.
The last time you said a few orders, I don't know who decided to prepare it.
I assumed Mr. Hentel was probably acting in the order of the Secretary of Defense.
So, let's go one of the pro-Nomple's sentences.
The question, too, is the truth that as you said a day, you ordered them prepared?
Or is the truth that as you said the last time you were here, I don't know who decided to prepare it?
Well, I know Senator McCarthy that I talked with Mr. Wilson about this, when I talked with Mr. Hentel about it.
I never issued any written order to prepare these charges, but I feel as the responsibility for the issue of the committee is completely long.
And if it is a fact that Mr. Wilson has knowledge of the situation, please meet Mr. Hentel there and serve me either.
And I am flying to the best of my ability, put before this committee, the fact that I feel in my heart that my responsibility was completely long.
Although I did, the best of the matter was Mr. Hentel and was the Secretary of Defense.
Mr. Hentel was a year alone, flying to get me into the one person.
I don't enjoy keeping him in the fan and definitely what I've got to find out if I can.
Other than that, it is true that you don't know who decided to prepare the order to the charge, as you said.
Well, however, as you said a day, you ordered him to prepare. Now, if you're just repeating the responsibility of yours, I know that the Secretary of the Army, the Senate, the Mayor of the responsibility, don't give yours.
The charges were slightly different, the appropriate for the charges. But, as we know from the time the money before you returned to the party, you don't know who ordered the charges.
That was not the, that was not the, uh, preparation of charges. That was raw material, memorandum, for the file.
All right, that's nothing to do with charges. One final answer, Hentel.
Who made the decision? Who each of the order were more otherwise? That's the formal charges.
The one file on March 11th of the committee, we prepared. Was that you, do you remember who it was? If not, no.
Well, Senator, I can only do to the subject of the best of my recollection of ability.
And that is, Mr. Wilson, I talk with him about this. I talk with Mr. Hentel. I talk with Mr. Brown.
There was no written order, every issue is the far as I'm aware of where it's connected with this matter.
But, may I never issue any? I believe that it was my responsibility, and that undoubtedly I did, order them to be made up.
You've been under the living room for so long.
I've signed very, very hard to recall, kind of a part of the work. If you can't control what I'm doing is, uh,
accessing the responsibility for those charges. Mr. Mr. Wilson, you cannot cover up any of my touching responsibility.
I'm not trying to cover it right now. If you don't remember, there isn't anyone to cover up.
But I've signed it. Give it all the names and all the facts that I can't reconnect with this matter.
This is like at a one final attempt. Do you remember for the U.H. of the order of the charges to be prepared?
I know that someone has to issue that order.
Senator, if you'll just take a little bit of background here. What perhaps we have these interlates from senators, members of this committee, and otherwise.
senators and congressmen, and some kind of an answer to their inquiries had to be prepared.
Now, that's what was done in connection with this thing, including efforts to answer the first things inquiries that we have from the Senate and the House in regard to private beach at the time of the day of the chance.
And that's how the thing was started. The start of the answer to inquiries from up here.
It wasn't started as an issue of charges.
But look at the review from your formal charges.
Formal statements about it.
The statement about the types of the army in the garbage used to be in the state of the 20s.
Now, as the Congress charges, I urge them to go ask for the military in the air force.
When I will give you a blackmail, I call your attention to the fact that these charges are nothing whatsoever to do with each other raised by some of their partners, luckers.
As the fellow undoing, influential views by Senator McCarthy and his staff, sub-dain preferential statements for private shines.
The former refresher recollection, like all your attention to your testimony on the end of the year, in 1940, has been extradited because it will take some time to identify the facts.
The statement in all the plan is to vote under McCarthy and the Secretary of the Army, unless they speak to the Army, as not given the direct answers to a direct question.
I would say that critically, I say that in all punishments.
And it may be the thought of some of the members of the committee that your fingers give a direct question to many, I insist accounts for the fact that you've been on the witness stand for long.
And I think it is a proper question. And I think in the ancient direct statements, it isn't a question of whose responsibility it was for the cooperation of these charges that were released on March the 11th, with the senators entitled to know and the members of this committee are entitled to know whether or not you directed the preparations of that chronological statement of the ranch release on March the 11th.
And pursuing the senator's question, Father, I call your attention to this.
Secretary Steven, will you identify the patient of the page number 1949?
If that's the case, you will identify the number you were reading from.
And I don't, if you're testimony of Mr. Secretary, I don't know who decided to prepare.
I know that Mr. Hinton got into the UNFD to see this brown and discuss these matters with him and I did that.
I, in the defense, who was probably acting under orders to the Secretary of the Defense, I don't know.
Now Mr. Steven, the time is saying this morning you say that you direct in the preparation of this front of 34 page chronological statement of the ranch.
The electorate, I said that I had responsibility for Mr. Jackson.
And I know, I'm not talking about responsibility.
You were soon for responsibility and let's get away from that.
We've all got the responsibility for certain acts of our subordinates and sometimes they do an act that I direct him and sometimes they do it on their own initiatives.
But we're talking about a 34 page document released to the public on March the 11th.
The question now is, did you or not him and then I think he's the nice to me with a yes or no?
Did you or not direct our order or suggest the preparation of that 34 page chronological statement of the ranch?
I suggested it. You did suggest it.
And so now are we to assume that it was done?
How do you suggest it?
Well, and others, Mr. Jenkins, because as I said Mr. Wilson was fairly familiar with this thing.
And so was Mr. Hempel.
And I think Mr. Smith, as I said here on page 1949, I think Mr. Hempel got in touch with me probably the suggestion of Mr. Wilson.
And then Mr. Hempel and I discussed the matter together.
Well, now Mr. Secretary, is this final question?
Focus, final.
You say you suggest the preparation of that 34 page document?
How do you reconcile that statement which you just made that you suggested it?
With your statement on page 1949 of the record in which you state that you don't know?
I tried to explain this to Jenkins to the best of my very limited ability.
There was no written order about it at all.
Mr. Wilson was familiar with the thing.
So as Mr. Hempel, we discussed it together, and Satan knew about it, and it's just exactly who in the final analysis said what to do?
It isn't as clear as I would like to be able to make it.
It just isn't, but I'm prepared to say that I suggested it, and I think it may have been suggested by others too.
I think that's all I can do.
Here is no question this time.
Senator Trello?
While they're going around, let's return to our studios across the country to permit our station to identify themselves.
This is ABC Television Network.
This is WABD, Channel 5, New York. Money is the root of all.
It's an idea. Can't we have a little honor?
No, it's not.
Mr. Hempel, is anybody in the White House to put these orders together or tell you to put them together?
No, sir.
Did anybody in the Department of Justice ask you to put them together or tell you to put them together?
Did anybody in any other executive for the Fourth of the government ask you to put them together or tell you to put them together?
Except the Pentagon building, no, sir.
Then what is I understand your testimony, and I'm just trying to get ahead with this thing?
There were discussions in the Pentagon building with respect to these.
In your opinion, improper action.
Is that correct? Yes, sir. Or pressure.
And that's that discussion properly. The Secretary of Defense was there sometimes and sometimes he was not.
That's right.
And probably Mr. Hempel and Mr. Brown were there sometimes and sometimes were not.
And you were there sometimes and sometimes were not.
That's right.
And you discussed it as a matter of an internal problem in the Pentagon with all the people including your chief, the Secretary of Defense Wilson.
Is that right? Yes, sir.
And at a point it was decided that based on the notes that Mr. Adams got up and based on other information that you got up and based on information that Mr. Hempel got up and Mr. Brown got up and very possibly Mr. Wilson got up.
And at that point it was decided that these charges were to be published.
Is that correct? Where to be supplied to those who would ask for it?
Now is there anybody in the Pentagon who will not take responsibility for putting these charges out?
Who will not take it? That is correct. I don't think so.
Everybody in the Pentagon believes before a human law in the story that they should be put out? Yes, sir.
But you're coming before this committee and saying that in the Secretary of the Army they will put out under your authority or with your responsibility.
Is there any way that anybody wants to take it at this side of the table? Is that correct? That's correct.
I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Wilkins?
Well, I would only like to point out that Mr. Jacobs was sure we could do this in a few minutes by...
I told the Secretary he'd be here very short time. I would like to conclude it at some reasonable time.
Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Cohn. Mr. Cohn.
Mr. Secretary, I just want to answer a few questions. You're right.
Vice-Senator Simon's questions to you. And I want to suggest to you, sir, that some of the answers that you've given him are directly contrary to previous born testimony given and previous born testimony given by Mr. Adams.
Now, if you tell Senator Simon's been a little while ago, sir, that the decisions can...
And so far, the Army is concerned relating to this controversy could be made only by the Army or the Department of Defense and not by the White House or the Department of Justice or Advisors' most two plays.
I don't think I said that. Well, could we have the record on that, Mr. Chairman? I think that's very important.
Yes, sir. The President of the Desigmey Commission, we punch the wish, Mr. Seaman, said that the decisions were all made by the Department of the Army and the Department of Defense and by him, and that they were not made at the direction of the Department of Justice or Representative from the White House or anyone on the outside. He was going into the chain of commissation.
Well, that's what you just said there. I think quite different from what you said previously, and I think it's a good thing to have it read.
Fine, I like to... Would you tell us now to say it's time just like you've missed? I like to have it read so that I can see you.
Because my understanding of what you said there is the first time, the difference, once it's taken down, is well, in order to have them both read and say you say the same.
So I will try to get you a good time to question you and read on until the end of the conversation.
No.
That way, it's fine to have read. That's the point.
That's right.
You don't need to read in place.
Just so the reporter will know what to look for. If you'll start and send her to signing the first round of pressing,
the answer is something that's like the no one except I could give a note of the order.
And there are no things about Mr. Cohen.
It's probably far down in the reporter's notes and it's probably been sent down, spare, four.
Mr. Cohen, I'm only capable of handling one subject of the time, please.
I want Mr. McKesting to do an answer until it's the time I've been going on for another topic.
You want to wait?
Anybody in the Pentagon will not take responsibility for putting up the answer at all.
That's right.
That is fine.
The first round of the year is serious.
I'm trying to point out the fact that I feel like that is fine.
I'm trying to do that.
The no one in the White House and the White House, if nobody just at the bottom puts the towel to the bottom of the only one until the sole lawyer would have to come from the department of the department.
And those at the bottom of the only one in each case, if they just follow the other.
You were bringing into question much earlier when Senator Simmons was talking about the line of command and that's right.
For example, the line of command, I think, somewhere else.
Well, in order to try to expedite Mr. Coroner's plan, that the person in the United States to give any order he wants to to the Army at any time he wants to.
Yes, I'm sure that.
We were trying to be one that he reported, or advised us to chair the early around the question, have been sent down to the typewriting room.
So I would suggest Mr. Coroner, we phrase these questions and start over and then perhaps you can proceed without having to be down in series.
I'll certainly try to do that. Mr. Stamins, in your statement, submit this morning.
Did you say I wish to make it perfectly plain that the decisions and acts on the part of the Army concerning the controversy presently being heard by the Senate, not committee, were the decisions and the acts of the Department of the Army all along.
That's the mistake.
Correct.
Full made the decision that Mr. Adams should call on members of the subcommittee on January the 23rd and January the 22nd and tell them that they should help out getting these opinions for the loyalty for a kill and telling them in the alternative about this business about myself and Mr. Shine.
Full made had decisions.
I can't subscribe to all of that language that you had in there, but I'll take a part of it and say that Mr. Adams undoubtedly made the decision himself to go and call on the senator.
He made that decision himself.
Was that decision made by Mr. Adams as a result of suggestion made to him at this meeting with White House Advisors and Justice Department officials?
I suggest you ask Mr. Adams about that.
Well, didn't he tell you about that, sir?
I was out of the country.
Well, there's this statement you make this morning applied to Mr. Adams as well as yourself, namely the decisions and acts with all of the army and the army all along.
That statement stands as a part of the army alone.
And that applies to Mr. Adams as well as the future.
Sure.
Now, what's possibly very much for Mr. Adams, both of the subcommittee under oath, the other day, that I might read, that might be better than my power statement.
He described the meeting he ascended with the Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney General, the top presidential assistant, another White House assistant, and the UN ambassador.
He said, to the tools, I recounted the details about the loyalty for ultimatum.
And at Mr. Rogers' express, I described the problem we were having over a private shine and how the two matters seemed to meet the Bay Relay.
After this meeting, Governor Adams asked me if I had a written record of all the incidents with reference to private shine, which I had discussed with them that day, and which I have recounted here.
And when I replied in the negative, he stated, he thought, I should prepare one.
Then I particularly call your attention to this, sir, if I may.
The meeting finally concluded with the decisions that I should call on the Republican members of the subcommittee, the Democratic, the Democratic members were not the members, and point out to them the two problems which I had discussed in the Attorney General's office.
The fact that Mr. Adams was set under oath that a decision was made by the two White House advisors, by two justice department officials, and by the UN ambassador, that certain steps that the taken in connection with this controversy, I think that was completely a suggestion, and I think Mr. Adams acted completely in the pomegranate.
Do you think that his words, the meeting finally concluded with the decision that I should call on the Republican members?
I think Mr. Cohen, when you're on this ban, they have the day for a long time.
It's just fairly possible, once in a while, to use the wrong words, maybe to use the wrong word there.
You think he might have used the wrong words.
Mr. Stevens, do you feel that you used the wrong words when you categorically denied under oath at page 1949 that you had ordered these charges to put out?
I've tried to explain to you that this is who was in this thing, how it's developed, and how the decision was finally tightened to the best of my recollection.
And I'm suggesting, because I know you appreciate this, it's a very important matter to us here, that there is directly contradictory testimony, which cannot be reconciled in which things will go on even further apart this morning.
Now, specifically, you said, page 1949, I don't know whose decided to prepare it.
I know that Mr. Hensfield got in touch with me and asked me to see Mr. Brown.
Now, if you asked Mr. Brown, or if somebody said Mr. Brown to you, and suggest that you give Mr. Brown the facts within you know, Mr. Hensfield got in touch with me about Mr. Brown.
So that was Mr. Hensfield right here, and that your idea.
That's right.
You didn't say, send Mr. Brown down, I've ordered to release the certain charges of the drawing up and setting up the date.
Based on Mr. Brown to you.
That's right.
Then you went on to say, nothing abnormal about that.
I don't think the discussion I don't know.
Mr. Brown, we're just trying to get the facts here.
Now, you said I assume that Mr. Hensfield was probably acting under the orders of the Secretary of Defense.
The writers, I don't know.
That's right.
Well, the right factor is question of who gave all orders.
You said they had categorical issues.
That you did not give the orders that somebody higher up gave the orders.
You don't seem able to understand that sometimes in an administrative department or an executive branch of government or even in a business,
that people have to get together and exchange views and come to some conclusions.
And it very frequently happens that there's no written order that comes out of that.
Or that no one single person has issued the order.
It's that it's that it's a get together of the different types of views.
And I've indicated to you that Mr. Wilson knew about this.
Mr. Hensfield was to Brown, Mr. Adams and myself.
And I want to take the responsibility for the decision and apply to explain to you the very best way I claim as to how some of these executive departments decisions are reached.
I'm sure that's an I'm very sorry that this has taken this long, but we still don't have an answer to what is the crucial question which causes me to adjourn for a full week.
Now that question is who did give this order?
Now you were very desperate when you were here the last time and I might leave this to you to reflect your recollection.
Did you order them for that?
That was a question by Senator McRath, Secretary T.
No sir, I didn't order them for that.
We did not put them out, Mr. Cone and I have explained that at least 25 times.
We did not put them out.
How did you mean by the words put out when you used them on that date?
Not. I was explaining to you repeatedly that what we did was to answer inquiries that we had for members of the front of the house.
We didn't put them out.
Well, maybe if we could do a different thing, could you tell us what you meant by put out here?
Let me give this to you sir.
And then this is awfully important, sir.
We could get it directly in.
Who decided to prepare?
We're getting back to the preparations with these charges with the pages these years.
Secretary C.
Who decided to prepare?
Senator Mataji, yes.
Secretary Steven, I don't know who decided to prepare.
I know that Mr. Hensel got in touch with me and asked me to see Mr. Brown and discuss these matters with him.
Hensel sent Brown to use.
And I did that.
I assume that Mr. Hensel was probably acting under orders of the Secretary of Defense.
Yes, ma'am, he won't do it.
Somebody else gave you an answer.
I don't know.
Or...
But are these charges worth put out?
And title.
All these charges are something to that effect.
You would say they're the worst.
Or if they're in a McCartley, they were wrong.
He used the words put out.
They're not my words.
Well, you said on reading your answer.
No sir, I didn't.
What of them put out?
Why did you send them a copy, man?
I didn't.
I didn't know what them put out.
I ordered just the answers to the inquiries that we'd have to remember the committees and the Senate and the House.
The patient has answers to their inquiries in regard to the matter of private charge.
Why did you send them a copy, man?
Why did you think they're sending them a copy, man?
When he sent following the questions I've raised, you sent you orders and referring to the charges.
But make it a public.
Make it a public.
Uh, that was...
Is that what you meant, Hensel?
That's exactly what I thought he meant.
And I did not say that.
Can you tell me any place in the records at this point, when sending them a copy, use the words and make them public?
Well, I don't know that's a long record.
Well, it's in the case, sir.
But when he used the words put out, I understood that what he meant was that we'd given them out to the public, which we did not do.
Well, sir, as far as we were trying to do was answer inquiries from the Congress in regard to private charge.
We didn't put anything out.
I think.
Now, uh, to go on and answer many, you said, you said in your office, you said in the previous committee, that the issue was raised by Senator Partis left.
That's true.
The I-4-3-2-5-20.
The issue raised by Senator Partis left as to whether undue influence was used by Senator McCarthy and his death to obtain professional treatment.
There were many inquiries that have come to us before it's under the... before it's under Partis left.
Many inquiries.
Did you reply to those other many inquiries there?
Yes, we did.
Did you release the charges?
I'm sorry.
I have no second.
I'm not sure.
I have none.
Do any of the inquiries that the left had any?
Those questions and my right?
Did you make the vote?
No.
The vote made pretty.
Yes.
There's a couple more questions on this.
Uh...
Did the Mike Brechley quoting from your attorney statement when you said that our counter charge of false has nothing whatsoever to do with the...
If you raised by Senator Partis left, did you say that sir?
Did you say that sir?
I'll have to look it up.